[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And
now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Hi.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much also.
Thank you so much.
Thank you for joining me here on
"Spirit Talk," where I take you
one step closer to heaven.
In today's show, it's a
very interesting show.
I've been waiting a long
time to do this show,
because today's show
is all about telepathy.
Hm, interesting.
Just that word, "telepathy,"
what does that mean?
I remember once when
I was at a conference,
and there was a sign
language person there.
And I love having sign language
people at my conferences,
because it's such an art.
And I asked her, what is
the sign for telepathy?
And she said, it's this.
Isn't that interesting?
So it's signals.
It's signals being sent
from one to the other.
And that's really what it is.
That's what telepathy is.
It's picking up and
receiving signals.
We do it every day.
We do it every single day,
but we're not aware of it.
We're not conscious
of it sometimes.
You know, sometimes
you'll be thinking
of someone and the phone
rings, and it's that person.
You received their thought first
of who they are telepathically.
So it's all telepathic
communication,
and that's really what it is.
So anybody in the
audience can give me
an example of how
you use telepathy,
or another way perhaps?
>>AUDIENCE: When you wake up
before your alarm goes off.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You wake up
before your alarm clock?
That's OK.
That to me doesn't really
fit into telepathic,
because telepathic
is really when
you have a sender
and a receiver,
and that's usually what it is.
So if someone's
thinking about you,
they're sending out
a signal, a thought,
and you are picking
up that thought.
You're receiving their signal.
So anybody else?
>>AUDIENCE: Body language.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Body language.
Now, how would you
say body language?
>>AUDIENCE: If
you're reading them,
and they're cutting you off,
you automatically close yourself
off.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah.
All right, so our young lady
over here said body language.
And I don't necessarily
go with that.
Now, what I mean by that
is that's a physical thing.
So yes, you can read
them on a psychic level,
or you can be observant of that.
So if someone's
sitting like that
and they're closing
off the energy,
you can be-- you know
just by their structure
that they're not being
open to receiving.
So that's a little bit
different than telepathy.
It's usually a sending
of something, a thought,
and receiving a thought.
So mothers do it all the
time with their babies,
whether their
babies are in utero
or out in the world,
mothers and children always
have that kind of a connection,
a telepathic link, if you will.
Always happens.
You have an example?
>>AUDIENCE: I called my son
about a minute and a half
after he was in a bad accident.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You called your
son after a minute and a half
after he was in a bad accident.
Telepathic.
Telepathic, that's
very, very true.
Very good, telepathic.
And that's really one of the
strongest links there is,
it really is, between
mother or father and child,
because they're part
of that soul as well.
So different ways all the time.
I mean, we'll be
driving down the street,
and all of a sudden
you think of somebody.
They're sending you a
thought of themselves,
whether they're in the
incarnate, in the body,
or they're in the spirit world.
So how many people here,
with a show of your hands,
have been driving along,
and all of a sudden,
you think of a
deceased relative?
All of you.
Did you ever think that they're
sitting right next to you
in the chair, in the
seat right next to you,
and they're just
sending, projecting
a thought into your mind?
Because that's exactly
what they're doing.
They're sending you a thought,
and you're receiving it.
And you can receive
it because you
have a connection
with that person.
It doesn't matter if the soul
is in the body, incarnate,
or out of the body, discarnate.
They're still with you.
That love bond still continues.
They haven't gone far away.
They're still around you, in
the atmosphere around you.
The spirit world
are all around you.
Those levels of dimensions
are all around us.
There's no place
like going there,
be it heaven, or down
there, no such thing.
It's all around us.
The spirit world is all around
us, just a different vibration
of energy, of
realms if you will.
So when I talk to spirit,
when I do my work as a medium,
I really am just receiving.
So I'm receiving their signals.
And there are some
communicators,
as you're all gonna find
out by the end of the show,
because you're going
to be the mediums.
But when I work with the
spirit world, what happens
is I get myself into
a very receptive state
to receive signals, and
that's what I'm doing.
And the spirit world
know that they're
in charge of sending the signal
to me, transmitting the signal,
transmitting the code.
And what happens is they have to
send that thought in such a way
that I, the medium, am able to
receive it in a certain way.
So I like to think of it
sometimes like a radio
bandwidth.
And we have over here and over
here, this limit to this limit.
And they have to come somewhere
in between that bandwidth
in order for me to receive it,
because my bandwidth is just
this way, and they
have to come in that.
If they send a
thought too quickly,
it'll go beyond my bandwidth.
If it's too slow, I won't
be able to pick it up.
So it really has
to-- they really
have to project that signal in
a certain way that I receive it.
Now, very interestingly, I
find that the best signals
I receive from the
spirit world are
the ones that are coming not
only from them, identification,
who they are, but if that
signal is sent with love.
When there's a
signal with emotion,
it comes through
stronger, as you'll find.
So people that are
watching this at home,
you can also do this with a
friend or a partner of yours,
if you want to work
with a little exercise.
Have fun with it.
It can be a game.
It really can.
Start it with a game.
Have some amusement.
Have some joy.
So I thought we would do
that, we'll start with that.
Now, before we get
to the exercise,
I just want to say to
you that you are a soul.
You're a soul having a human
experience, not the other way
around.
And as a soul, really, what
that's made up of is your mind.
Not the brain, because the brain
is part of the physical body,
but it's really the mind.
And the mind within it has all
of the memories, experiences
of this lifetime
and other lifetimes.
So when spirits come
back and communicate,
many times they will bring
through a memory that
was created in the lifetime
that's still in their mind.
And hopefully it's in the
mind of the recipient,
and they try to get and light
up that memory of the recipient
and try to send
that signal through.
So there might be some of
you sitting here saying,
I just want my dead
son to come through.
Come on, come on, come
through, come through.
What you're doing is you're
sending out a signal that you
have an-- want him to be
there, but you're also
blocking the energy, because
if you're sitting there going,
come to me, come to
me, you're sending out
a signal that will actually
block the bandwidth,
because you're not open-minded.
You're close-minded.
You're closing your
focus to one spirit.
So the odds of that
spirit coming through
are slim, because
you're not giving them
space to come through.
Isn't that interesting?
You never thought
about that, did you?
Uh-uh.
And I teach audiences, or
inform audiences of that
all the time,
because they think,
if they can just think of
them, the more they can,
the stronger it is.
It's just the opposite effect.
And spirits come through,
and really in our lives,
things will come into our
lives and manifest in our lives
the more open we are and
letting the energy flow.
If we have the intention,
we set out the intention,
and we just open up to receive
and let that energy flow,
you'll get it.
But if you try to control
it, you're going to block it.
So I love that expression,
let go and let God.
It really, really works.
So when your soul leaves this
physical body, this vessel,
your mind, as part of
the soul, goes over
to the other side,
or another realm--
and within that mind, of course,
all those memories and life
experiences you ever
had and all the belief
systems you have as well.
That's in your mind.
All the worries you have,
that's in your mind.
All the ideas, mental
attitude, connections,
relationships-- all in your
mind, that goes with you.
It doesn't stop just here.
Interesting, yes?
So those people, who let's
say, are extreme religion,
for instance.
When they say-- I'm just going
to pull one out of the hat
here.
Let's say born again-- born
again Christians, which I love.
But let's say that
mindset-- or my mother
was very Catholic,
but very Catholic.
And when she passed away,
she was met by a priest,
because that's what she
understood in her mind.
And she was talking about
a heaven with angels
and all of this sort of thing.
And then she came back
to me as the medium,
and she said, you don't believe
in this heaven the way I do,
do you?
I said, no.
She said, everybody
has the right
to believe the way
they want to believe,
because heaven is different
for every single person based
upon your thoughts.
I once did a reading
for an audience,
and a girl's father
came through.
I was actually communicating
with the girl's grandmother.
And I knew that the
father, the deceased father
was over there,
standing right there.
And he was standing there
like this, arms folded.
And I said to him
telepathically, I said,
do you want to speak
to your daughter?
And he said, why the hell
would I want to do that?
I didn't believe in
this when I was alive.
Why would I believe in it now?
Isn't that amazing?
It's amazing.
So I think it's important--
it just behooves you.
It really, really behooves you.
But they do get like that.
It's a mindset.
It really is a mindset.
And all the worry, and all the
limitation of consciousness,
the limitation of
thinking, really
gets in the way of our
natural state of being,
our natural state of love.
Our natural state is love.
And the further you get away
from that state of love,
the further you're away
from your true self,
and you'll never be
happy, because love
is your natural vibration.
If you live in fear, you're
really living from the ego,
which is of course
false-- F-E-A-R,
False Ego Appearing Real.
Yeah?
Oh, we love that one.
It's a good one.
Yes, and E-G-O, Edging God Out.
Ooh, it's another good one.
So if you can live
every day in the moment
and clear up the mind and
really bring love as fertilizer.
I would say acts
of kindness really
are fertilizer for the mind.
I really do believe that.
And I believe that if we can
maybe take a time every morning
to clear the mind, to clear
the junk out of our mind,
it's really, really
important because then we
can receive easier.
We can receive those
signals much easier.
So, often the spirit people will
say, you have to weed the mind.
You have to weed the
garden of the mind,
because sometimes we have in
that mind old belief systems.
Sometimes we carry other
people's expectations,
what other people think of us,
what their idea of who we are,
instead of who we truly are.
All these concepts and
notions we have in this mind.
And it gets cluttered.
It gets cluttered.
And after a while, if we don't
take the time to weed it out,
that stuff's gonna
grow, and it'll
influence our decision making.
It'll influence our
choices in life.
Yeah?
And sometimes then you'll become
tired, listless, emotional
upsets, and you'll feel
like, I'm not myself.
And you're not yourself.
Your worries, the mental
conditions of your mind
has really taken over.
So that's important you
don't get like that.
OK?
So I'm going to do a
little meditation for you
to help to clear out
the garden of the mind,
to weed the garden of
the mind, all right?
And you can use this every day.
So I'm just going to do a
little meditation with you now,
it's just really a focus.
And you come into
this room here,
and those who are watching on
your computers or television
sets, really you
come with-- you come
to this moment with
a certain belief
system, a certain
awareness, if you will.
And this is the time now
where this is for you.
This is your time.
We worry so much about other
people and our influence
on other people.
We worry about the past.
The past has already happened,
not much we can do about that.
And the future is
yet to be, so there's
really not much you
can do about that.
And if you can just
live in this moment
now, be very present
in this moment,
that you can have control over.
You know, living in the
moment, present moment,
you won't be in fear, because
fear is from the past,
not in the present.
So together, let's all
just close our eyes.
And let's just go
on a little journey.
And those at home, just listen
to the sound of my voice
and the music behind it.
Great.
And what I want you to do is
to really place your awareness
or your mindfulness just
on the physical body.
So it's as if you could
just use your imagination,
use your imagination, and
create in your mind's eye
a flashlight, just a flashlight.
And take that
flashlight, and let
it shine the inside
of your body.
So illuminate the inside of
the body, the top of your head
all the way down to the
bottom of your toes.
And illuminate every cell,
every muscle, every organ,
and make sure they're all
working, in good working order.
Great.
Now this flashlight
also has the power
to dissolve any energies in
that space, any energies that
are around you that
do not belong there,
any energies that are holding
you back from your potential.
So just be mindful of that.
And as you scan
your head area, be
mindful of anyone's energy in
your space around the head,
worry from somebody
else, other people's
energy holding onto you.
It's now time, as that
flashlight shows you, comes
into focus, you may see
other people's faces,
you may see dense
energies, however it's
going to manifest as you
see this, in your own mind,
all around you.
You're going to release
and dissolve that energy.
And as you do that, the energy
just goes-- just breaks up,
and those particles go
all through the body,
down out of your toes
or out of your hands.
And let Mother Earth, who's a
wonderful magnet, who's really
our mother-- she takes
away those dense energies,
those particles that don't
belong to you to give you
freedom of space in your mind.
And there's no
judgment with this.
It's just an assessment to see
what you've been holding on to.
As you use that flashlight
and go down the entire body
and the auric field around
you, just let it show you,
present to you whose energy
you've been holding on to,
whose energy you've
been giving power to,
whose life you're
living if not your own.
And just let them then dissolve.
And now we're going to
take a deep, deep breath
to bring in more of that
beautiful flashlight light,
that luminosity.
And when you exhale,
we're going to release
that stagnant energy.
So together, let's inhale
this beautiful light.
And inhale.
And holding it,
two, three, four.
Let it illuminate.
And now release and exhale.
Release, let it go,
let it go, let it go.
Good.
And another time.
Bring that beautiful luminosity.
See how warm that is.
And inhale.
And hold it, two, three, four.
And exhale.
And let it go, let
it go, let it go.
Wow, look at that, releasing all
those people from your space.
It's a big deal.
One more time, bringing yourself
to that perfect golden light.
And inhale.
And holding it,
two, three, four.
And exhale and release.
Good.
And just sit with
that space for a bit.
Be mindful now
that you are indeed
a soul, a light on this planet.
And become mindful
of your heart space,
the seat of the soul, the
space for healing and balance,
connection to source,
the oneness of all.
And feel the love of yourself.
We were not thrown down on
this planet arbitrarily.
You have a purpose.
Every single person in this
room, every single person
watching this, you
have a purpose.
You are like the
stars in the sky.
You illuminate that
space that you take up.
And just be mindful
of that beautiful love
in the center of your heart.
And many times, we see
that as a green light,
a beautiful green, loving,
compassionate light.
That is the light
that people will see.
you want them to see.
And that is the light you
want them to share with you.
Love by its very nature is not
to keep but indeed to share.
So please, with your
intention and your thought,
send that green light of love to
the person on your right side.
And those at home, to those
people in your life you
need-- that need to
receive your love.
And soon the entire
room and your space,
your mind, your auric field,
is open to that loving energy.
And take a deep breath
with that energy.
And hold it, two, three, four.
And exhale.
And let it go.
And just stay in that
beautiful, loving space.
Perfect.
Good.
Now we're going to
open up our eyes.
We're getting back into the
body with a deep, deep breath,
coming back into the body.
And inhale, two, three.
And exhale.
Open your eyes, put up
your arms or your fingers,
come back into the space.
It's so interesting,
but when you
do that exercise, a
lot of times stuff
comes up to the surface which
you never thought was there.
Did anybody have
that experience?
Yeah.
Stuff you're holding on
to-- and unconsciously.
You're not even
aware consciously
that you're holding on to it.
It's unconscious.
It might be something
that happened
when you were 7 years
old or 10 years old.
It might be something someone
said to you as a child
or someone said to
you early on in life.
It might be one of
your family members,
it might be a friend, it might
be a situation or scenario that
happened in your life, so
it's really interesting.
So we're going to
do an exercise now,
and it's a really
great exercise.
I save this for
my classes, and I
thought I'd save it
for our show today.
And it's really-- I'll call
it a telepathic exercise.
And we're going to
do it in partners,
so you're going
to have a partner.
We're going to move
the chairs around,
so you're actually
facing a person.
And maybe if we keep
this aisle open,
that would be great so
I'll walk around and assess
what you're doing and help you.
And that would be great.
And the people that are
watching this at home,
you can do this with a
friend or a partner as well.
And so we'll set up the chairs,
and we'll get back to you, OK?
Great.
OK, so here we are.
So today we're going to do
some telepathic exercises.
And I love this.
This is really, really fun.
So I don't want you to
be very nervous at all.
I should be nervous.
No, don't be nervous.
So everybody in this
world is connected as one.
So if you look at that
person across from you,
actually you're very
similar than dissimilar,
because every single person
has what's called a heart.
How about that?
So I just want you to be
mindful of that person's heart.
And what I'd like
you to do right now
is to be aware that
there's a beautiful current
of green light of love.
We call it the
empathetic connection.
So this ray love,
green love, connects
with you and that
person across from you.
So try that, and just
see what that feels like.
Oh, isn't that nice?
Isn't that great?
I'm telling you, when you
love another person, that's
what you feel.
Great.
That's good.
See, now that will open
you up a little bit.
You won't be nervous.
This is a person that you feel
is a sense of familiarity.
So as you feel that energy with
the person across from you,
just try to feel or sense a
familiarity, something that--
about them that is
the same with you.
There's some aspect to them
that you can relate to.
It's right there for the
taking and for the receiving.
You've just got to open
up the mind to get it.
Great.
Perfect.
Do you like that?
Yes.
Do you all feel something?
Yes?
Very good.
OK, you don't want to
leave that space either.
OK.
So that's just an
awareness that that exists.
Good.
Now, between the two of you--
and hopefully none of you
know each other,
I'm hoping-- I would
like for you to decide who's
going to be the receiver
and who's going
to be the sender.
So between the
two of you, decide
who's going to be the
receiver and who's
going to be the sender,
and we'll take turns.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now,
receivers just kind of get
into that neutral
space, that loving space
that you're already in.
Senders, I want you
to close your eyes.
And senders, I want you to
imagine, right in front of you,
right in front of
your mind's eye,
I want you to create a color.
Now, the color I
want you to create,
you're going to have a choice--
either red, white, or blue.
And I want you to send into
the mind of your partner
that color you choose.
And send everything you
can, red, white, or blue.
And begin.
And send that very
strong into their mind.
Great.
OK, open up your eyes.
And now the partner is
going-- the receiver
is going to tell you what
they received from you.
Go right ahead.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
All right, how did you do?
How many people got the color?
Raise your hand.
One, two, three, four--
this side is not good.
Let me stand over
here and help you.
OK, so you didn't get that one.
That's OK.
We'll try it again.
OK, so now, OK, now the next
one, we're going to do this.
So I want the senders
to close your eyes,
receivers get into your
neutral space, just receiving.
And just it's right above
your head, your mind.
Just think of it as a
mind, a window there.
Now, senders, I want you
to send into the space
above your receiver a
shape, and the shape
is going to be a circle,
a square, or a triangle.
Send a circle, a
square, or a triangle.
So pick it out now, which
one you're going to send.
And if you want to put
color on that, that's good.
You can make it any
characteristic you
like-- anything that you
can get telepathically
sending that shape that you
choose to your receiver.
If it has an emotional charge
behind it, that's great.
If I really love a
circle, that's great.
So try to build up that
shape as much as you can.
Make sure you got it.
OK.
And now project it.
Send it right to the head,
right above their head
of your receiver.
OK, good.
Now, I want the
receivers to share
with the sender what you got.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, how
did you do on that one?
How many people got
the exact shape?
Raise your hands.
One, two-- look at
this side over here.
Well, we have two,
three-- three people.
Great, getting better over here.
Wow, much better on this side.
Great.
Why do you think--
someone on this side,
why do you think
you received more?
Why do you think you did better?
Why is that?
>>AUDIENCE: I was sending
more emotion with my vision.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
Was it easier to receive it?
>>AUDIENCE: I saw
it big time, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Big time with
the emotion, exactly right.
Big time with the emotion, and
that's exactly what I want.
Exactly.
So it becomes something more.
It becomes alive.
That thought becomes alive.
It's something.
It's an energy there, of course.
So good.
Very, very good.
Excellent.
You have to make
it alive, senders.
Send it with a lot life
and joy and whoosh.
Yep?
OK.
The last one, and then we're
going to switch around.
This is-- I just want
you to be open now, OK?
Be open.
All right.
Great.
OK, senders close your eyes.
Receivers, just receive.
Open up your heart perhaps,
that beautiful green space,
to receive.
And now senders, I want
you to send the following,
and I want you to
send it very simply.
Don't make it too complicated.
Not too complicated, but with
a lot of emotion behind it.
I want you, senders, to create a
scene-- just a scene, any scene
you want, whether it's in a
park, whether it's in a garden.
Any kind of scene,
make it simple.
And I want you to
send that scene
above the head of the receiver.
Send as much emotion with that
scene as you possibly can,
whether it has people in it or
it's no people, that's fine.
OK, and project it.
Very good.
You're doing very well.
Now you're into it.
OK, stop.
Good.
Please share with the receiver
and your senders-- share
what you got, receivers.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: How'd you do?
>>AUDIENCE: On the first
ones, we did right on.
On this one--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A little harder?
A little more complicated?
Did you get any pieces
or aspects of this scene?
>>AUDIENCE: I got some darker
feeling but it was grass that
she was--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Grass.
Did you send
anything with grass?
>>AUDIENCE: A horse
and in a field.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A
horse in a field.
So the field, you
got the grass field.
>>AUDIENCE: You did say desert,
so maybe you saw the sky.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The
more you do it,
the better you'll
get at it, too,
just learning to
receive and open up,
because you've got to
be very vulnerable, too.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: How'd
you guys do over here?
>>AUDIENCE: 0 for 3.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 0 for 3.
Being open is really
what it's about.
How'd you do?
>>AUDIENCE: We did closer.
We got water.
She was sending a
waterfall, and I
was seeing, like, a
tropical island with, you
know, in the day--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, very good.
>>AUDIENCE: So it was close.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Close.
Good.
You got an aspect of
it, which is nice.
The more you do it, the
better you get at it.
And it's being
vulnerable, it's being
open to receiving whatever
you're going to receive.
And it becomes not about you but
just what the information is.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, got it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
How'd you guys do?
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Closer.
>>AUDIENCE: I think
we did better, yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Got the
serenity, the feeling.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Yeah, when you surrender,
it can come in perfectly.
And then your stuff doesn't
get in the way and color it.
That's a really hard thing.
But it's OK.
You see how much better it
is when you don't color it.
Good.
Practice now.
How did you guys do down here?
>>AUDIENCE: We did well.
>>AUDIENCE: We're
getting better.
We're improving.
Yeah, the first one,
we were like this,
and then slowly we've
become more and more clear.
And this last one, she
said, OK-- she got,
like, half of it,
which was great.
Like, we're really
picking up, yeah.
We're getting connected.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Perfect.
OK.
OK, folks.
Give yourselves a
round of applause.
[APPLAUSE]
So the number one thing is this.
In telepathy or
telepathic communication,
it really is when
you are the receiver,
you have to surrender.
Surrender your mind
and just be open.
Again, it's not about you.
You've got to step aside.
So it's very much that way.
We were over here
talking a little bit,
and this young lady said,
we're both control freaks.
Well, it's hard when you try
to control something now,
isn't it?
So I'm going to
tell you something
I tell a lot of my
control freaks, which
is you have no control.
Oh!
You have no control.
And the moment you get to that
realization that you have no
control, you can't
control someone else,
you can't control someone's--
their life, you cannot do that.
But what you can
control is how you
respond to it, how you react.
And it goes-- I talk about
this all the time on the show.
Karma, to me, is how people
treat you is their karma.
How you respond is your karma.
And that's how you
use that energy,
and it's really,
really important.
So this was a different
way here, now,
of transmission,
telepathic communication.
And the spirit people when
they come through also
use telepathy, telepathic
images, feelings,
shapes, colors to get
through a message.
So let's do that now, shall we?
Good.
Please face each other.
OK, now what I want you to
do, we'll take turns here.
And one is going to be a
medium, and the other person
is going to be the recipient.
The recipient, you're going
to receive the information
from the spirit.
So decide who's going to
go first as the medium
and who's going to
be the recipient.
And you're just like a radio.
That's all-- OK, that's all
you are is a radio, folks.
That's all you are is a radio.
OK.
You got it?
OK, now here are
your instructions.
So, the medium who's
receiving, you're the receiver,
you're the radio.
I just want you to just
be in that mindset.
OK?
And the receiver is going
to tell you verbally now,
they're going to speak to
you and actually tell you
the name of the person
they want to contact
and the relationship
of that person.
So for instance, they
might say to you,
I want to contact my
father who's John.
His name is John,
and that's my father.
So go right ahead, right
now, and tell your medium
who you want to contact.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now just by
you having that thought,
they're around you, because
you wouldn't have thought
about them if they
weren't around you.
OK?
And now I just want you to
concentrate with your mind.
Now, because that person,
your partner there,
said the name of
the person, they
are already behind you,
because they've already
thought about them.
So just listen carefully,
and let that spirit drop
into your mind
something, something--
a thought, a feeling,
something that person
might know about them,
whatever it might be.
And also, as they drop that
thought, feel their love.
There's obviously love
there because the person
asked for them.
So feel the love.
When they drop into your
mind telepathically,
they're sending you a signal.
They send it with love.
Whatever they want to say,
just give them that room
in your mind, the
space to do that.
Very good.
OK, and stop.
OK, mediums, please
share with your partners
what you received
from the spirit.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Got it?
You were the medium?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good girl.
I'm very proud of you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
Me, too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
I knew you were an artist, see?
There you go.
So that art-- you know,
when I said to you,
you were an artist before,
when you do mediumship,
it's a creative energy.
So just whether it manifests
as art or manifests
as communication, or it's
just creative energy.
It's just how you
use that energy.
So you'd make a great medium.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And an
artist and everything else.
Really, anything you
set your mind to.
OK, kids.
How'd you do?
Over here, did you do well?
How many did well?
Raise your hands.
Very good, very good.
And over here, you
got something, yes?
Can you share with
us what you got?
Tell everybody.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Well, I saw a little girl,
like, bouncing on a man's lap,
like, laughing, having fun.
And then I just
got the name Kathy.
And then she said that
that's her mom's name.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, wow.
And mom's passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: No, mom's here.
>>AUDIENCE: Mom's right there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mom's there.
Kathy.
Who was the person
you wanted to contact?
>>AUDIENCE: Grandpa.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Grandpa.
And were you able to get
grandpa through at all?
Would that be your dad.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
He's right between you
both, you know that.
He worked with his hands
a lot, your father.
He's a hard-working man.
>>AUDIENCE: And I saw overalls.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Overalls.
Do you know anything
about overalls?
She got overalls.
>>AUDIENCE: You mean,
like, coveralls?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Coveralls?
You know like that?
Well, let me just help out.
Can I jump in with that?
Because I see him.
And did he know anyone
named Jack, by the way?
Jack or John?
John, Jack?
>>AUDIENCE: I had an uncle Jack.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Was he
related to him in some way?
Did he know of
him in the family?
>>AUDIENCE: He was
on my mother's side.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mother's side,
but they're over there together.
They know each other, OK?
And there's a Mary or a Margaret
or married lady over there
as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Mary was his wife.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mary was his wife.
Thank you.
So that's who he's with.
OK.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Kathy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kathy.
OK, Kathy.
Kathy-- Kathy, that's right.
Sorry.
Duh.
Kathy, I know that
your father wants
to-- is your mother still alive?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Uh-huh.
Because she is right around you.
Over here, but she's
like, [COUGHING].
She can't speak really well.
She's like, [COUGHING].
So there's something
with her lungs,
and she just can't
let it come out.
So as she comes close to me, and
you've set up the energy-- so,
thank you.
And that's your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: Her mom.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's your mom.
I love this whole
triangle thing.
I just love the shape.
I know-- we'll give mom a little
bit of time to come through.
But I know your father's
very proud of you
and what you've done.
I feel that you're more-- you
must have some siblings, then.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, are
there two other siblings?
>>AUDIENCE: Two.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So I know that your father's
really, really proud.
And he's going to be the
voice box for your mother
also to come through
here, because he
helped her his whole life.
He pulled her up and helped
her through everything,
understand that?
And I know that
your dad would not
be a man who would not be
afraid to roll up his sleeves
and get things done.
He's a doer.
I'm not a sitter.
I'm a doer, he says.
You understand that?
I know about the
brown paper bag,
so I'm going to go back in time.
So you'd know something to do
with him with a brown paper
bag.
I'm not sure if it's a
grocery or something.
I have brown paper bags.
And who's Frank, please?
>>AUDIENCE: His father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thanks.
So he's with Frank, his
father, who's with him.
I know there was a
little grocery store.
I know there was a little store
place, and you know about that,
don't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
as he comes to me,
he goes very, very clearly to
that situation, where he said,
I live in that-- you
would call it the past,
but to me it just is.
So it just is.
And I know that there's a lot
of women here too in the family,
like a Fanny, a
Betty, something--
these names are
coming in quickly, OK?
They're all trying to
help your mother out
because a lot of her
family was over there
already before she passed over.
I know about the
overall things, and I
like that, because I
like-- and I'll say,
he starts when he's 12.
>>AUDIENCE: He worked
hard at everything.
He excelled at everything.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
I don't like that.
I don't like everything.
That's too general.
I like 12 years of age, you have
to step up and do something,
or step out of the family
and really do something.
I don't know if he had the
brown paper bags he worked with,
or papers, newspapers
or something.
But I think at 12 years
of age, he must have.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Probably
a paper route.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
I know rubber bands now.
Now I'm seeing rubber bands.
Every morning at 5:30, up with
these rubber bands and papers.
You understand that?
And he's putting the rubber
bands around the papers.
That's what he's doing.
And I know brown paper
bags are very significant.
I know that because they
keep on coming in here.
Your dad is a man who likes to
get things right, not wrong.
And everything's
got to be right.
You honored him for his passing.
You honored him.
You helped him over.
And I need to let you know that.
I need to validate that
with you, acknowledge
that you helped him over.
And I know that you
really felt everything
is very precious
with your father.
I know you wanted to
carry out his last wish.
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's the
way we want to say it.
You want to carry
out his last wish,
because he's acknowledging
that and thanking you
for doing that.
I don't know who had to
be taken off life support.
Who had to be taken
off life support?
Was that mom?
Was there a decision
that had to be made?
>>AUDIENCE: With mom, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
There you go.
Good.
Come on in, sweetheart.
Let me just bring her in.
She's just-- she
must've lost some weight
and really lost herself
before she passes over.
Because I gotta tell you, she
tells me, I'll give it a try.
Now, what are these
spirits doing?
Exactly what you guys did.
They're sending me thoughts.
They're sending me
thought with emotion.
Now, for me, of course, it's
easier because it's a child,
it's a parent, there's
that connection,
that love that never dies.
And I gotta tell
you-- and who's Joan?
She's talking about seeing Joan.
>>AUDIENCE: I have
a friend named Joan.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joan,
she's seeing Joan.
Have you been around Joan?
>>AUDIENCE: We've
spoken a lot recently.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Does
Joan need a healing?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And didn't
Joan lose somebody
in her family or something?
A mother, a father?
Someone is lost.
>>AUDIENCE: In September.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I know that I've been with
Joan's parents over here,
and she's helping.
Would you let her
know that, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you also remind her
that she just changed her phone.
She changed her cell phone.
She changed her cell phone,
her cell phone number,
you're aware of that, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Your mother's telling me that.
Isn't that something?
That's great.
I like that.
I like your dad wearing a little
pin here, some kind of a pin.
And I don't know
what that means,
but you'd understand
about that pin.
And he's very proud of the pin.
And I don't know if you buried
him with his pin on him,
but he's very proud of
the way you did things.
There must have been
a wake, or there
must've been a funeral of
some kind for your dad?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Because I want to be amazed
by the amount of people
that are there,
and he was shocked.
Because he said, I didn't
know I knew that many people.
And I know there would
have been-- when you're
signing those books,
you're signing them,
there would have been two books.
He said we filled two
books, is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, because this
is what he's going on about,
we filled two books.
And I really like
that with this man.
I like him.
I wouldn't say he's cheap.
I wouldn't say that.
I would say he's thrifty.
I would say he's thrifty
is what I would say.
I would say he's thrifty.
And I know that there must
be some boxes of his things
still around somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, my.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, my.
And I know that he gives
me-- and your mother's
coming right here,
smiling her head off.
She said, thank you
for this opportunity.
She's really sweet.
Thank you for this opportunity.
She's very nice and
mannerly, and very
sweet and appreciative.
Thank you for the opportunity.
And I know that your father--
you'd have boxes of your dad
somewhere.
I don't know if it's in a
garage or it's in a basement,
but there's someplace
with his things.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I know if you go
and look around,
you'll find those brown
paper bags, damn it.
Did he know Ed?
Was there an Edward
or Ed that he knew?
Edmund or Ed?
The name Eddie or Ed?
>>AUDIENCE: His
father had a brother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Named Ed.
Because there's an Ed
over there as well.
I want you to know--
you have a boy as well?
You have a boy?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I know that
there's-- in your mind here,
there's worry about your son.
And your mother
is coming in here.
She says, can I just talk?
Yes, you can speak.
She says, thank you for
helping me in the hospital.
Thank you for taking care
of me in the hospital.
Thank you for really
taking care of her,
washing her, making
sure she was clean.
Because you knew that
you had to do it,
because those nurses
wouldn't do it.
Remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
your mother knew
every single thing
you were doing.
You even took her hands,
and you held them in yours.
Do you remember that?
Toward the end, you
were holding that.
Now, I know there must've
been something with oxygen
or something with your
mother, at one point.
And I know you said to yourself,
it's not doing any good.
It's not doing any good.
I want to talk about 2
o'clock in the morning,
because there seems to be some
kind of a change at 2 o'clock
in the morning, she said.
2 o'clock in the morning.
>>AUDIENCE: I heard
a train at that time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: At 2 o'clock?
OK, because that's very
significant to your mom.
Your mom was very, very
aware of things going on.
She was ready to go.
She saw your dad right away.
They had a card game
all ready for her.
I hope that makes sense
to you, but she said,
there's a card game
all ready for me.
And it was as if there's
a table there with cards,
and she has to sit in her spot.
Isn't that funny?
I don't know what that means.
So I'm going to
leave you with that.
And your mom is very
happy over here.
You must have her necklace.
>>AUDIENCE: I do
have a necklace, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, she said
you have her necklace.
Why don't you wear it?
>>AUDIENCE: I worked
very hard to get that.
My sister-in-law wound up
with it after she passed.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
A lot of fighting, a lot
of in-family fighting
and feuds and all that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yep.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your mother
doesn't care about that.
Oh, the hell with her.
Now she's turning from this
really nice lady to this,
like-- but it's almost
like, to hell with her.
That's OK.
You've got to love her for
everything, warts and all,
because that's all that she
knows, the sister-in-law.
Maybe it's money.
Maybe she has insecurity
about abundance.
That's probably what it's about.
So you can be better
than-- but she
loves that you
have that necklace.
She worked really hard
for you to get that.
OK, so I'll leave you with that.
Thank you.
God bless.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, you
can applaud for them.
OK.
How did we do over here?
How'd you do over here?
Did you get-- after that!
How'd you guys do?
Anybody get someone through?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, there we go.
This one again.
This one, she's dangerous.
Her show next.
OK.
OK, so we're gonna
hear what you've got.
Who'd you bring through, love?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, her mom, Ruth.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your mom, Ruth.
>>AUDIENCE: My mom, Ruth.
And she got her spot on.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What did you get?
>>AUDIENCE: I saw a very
strong, blonde woman.
I knew she was from Germany.
And then she just--
it's gonna make me cry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Because
she wanted her
to know how much she loved
her, because she could never
tell her growing up.
She said, I made
her a strong woman,
but I never-- she never knew how
much I loved her and how much--
and how proud I am of her.
She just came
through over, and she
says, I can still hear her--
I mean, just the feeling.
And yeah, that's it.
It was so-- oh, and how
much she misses you as well.
And your mom passed
away four years ago.
I didn't know if she was still
alive or in Germany, but--
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's great.
I love that.
I think it's a fabulous message.
And that's great that she was
able to drop it into your mind,
and you picked that
up telepathically.
That's how it works.
And can I just do a
little bit more than that?
Because you've done the work.
You've opened the door for me.
Now I can just go
right in, if I could.
>>AUDIENCE: Absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And it
was Anne, you said?
>>AUDIENCE: Ruth.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who's Anne?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm Suzanne.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're Suzanne.
Is there an Anne in
the spirit world?
Anna or Anne?
I know there is.
>>AUDIENCE: Helene?
Anne?
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's an
Anna or an Anne over there.
>>AUDIENCE: Anna is my
husband's grandmother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, so she's
in the spirit world, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
there's an Anna over there,
because she knows of her.
She talks to her now.
They talked to each other
about coming here today.
And I know that about--
what about the new car?
So I know about-- there
was a car problem.
I'm not sure which
one this is here.
Was there a car, that you either
got a car or returned a car
or there was a car issue, or
something about the car being
repaired, the car needs repair?
>>AUDIENCE: Yesterday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yesterday.
>>AUDIENCE: My husband's
car was repaired.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
just told me that.
Just told me that.
And I'm very aware that
the people-- yes, I
understand that.
Well, you know, she wants
to get things right,
and she's going on about that.
She grew up with
that whole thing
of it being right or wrong.
I've gotta be right,
because my father,
I don't want him to hurt me.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know that.
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because he was
a very much a disciplinary,
her dad.
And I know that she
got a lot of that stuff
that you say-- which thank
you very much for doing
that-- that she couldn't show
her emotion because she was
afraid that that would
be considered weak,
and you couldn't be weak
in front of her father.
You understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I got that.
I also want to tell you
that-- go on, go on-- there
must've been two repair garages
or two places he had to go to.
You understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because that's
what she's telling me now.
She's telling me that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I know
that, the two places.
And she's just making sure this
is right and you understand it.
She said, well, you know,
there are two things wrong
with that car.
Well, I'm not an
expert on the car,
but there are two things
that are wrong with it.
And they might fix one thing,
but it's something else.
And I know I want to
go under the hood.
And me, James, my
reference is not cars,
but I know I've got to replace
something there-- a spark plug?
Do they still use spark plugs?
It's something there, and
his computer timing is off
on things, so there must
be a computer with his car,
or something, because
something's off timing-wise.
Timing?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
this is so funny
to watch me try to do
this, because this is not
part of my world.
But there's something about--
she wants me to give something
about timing which talks to
another part of the engine
or something.
But it's two things,
not just one.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
So I've got to give that to you.
>>AUDIENCE: Wow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you
have a sister, by the way?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is she older
than you or is she younger?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
And who created the dollhouse
when you were a little girl?
Wasn't there a dollhouse?
>>AUDIENCE: I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You made
that dollhouse, didn't you?
And you were insistent
upon having that dollhouse
or making the dollhouse.
And I know you stole some
things from your mother
to put into that
little dollhouse.
Little things-- I don't know,
pieces of jewelry or something.
You wanted to make that--
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I'm sorry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
just an old memory,
and she's just giving
it as validation.
>>AUDIENCE: She knew?
>>VAN PRAAGH: She knew.
>>AUDIENCE: Oops.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, she knew.
Oh, she knew.
But I like that you gave
your mother the freedom
that she needed.
And I want to thank you, because
this is a very strong healing
for the spirit for her mother.
She needed this healing.
She's waited a long time.
Four years has it been?
She's waited four years to
come here to tell you this.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
just think about that,
how long a spirit sometimes
waits for the healing
to take place.
So that's great.
You must have a little
girl running around
or a daughter or something.
Who has the daughter
in the family?
Did you lose a daughter,
like a baby, a miscarriage
or something?
>>AUDIENCE: I had a miscarriage.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
because it's a daughter.
It's a daughter.
I know it's a daughter
in the spirit world.
I know your mother
takes care of her,
and I know she's
a softie to her.
And I know the
piano means a lot.
So playing the piano, OK?
So your mother is
telling me that she's
teaching this girl piano or
doing something with a piano.
And it's going to sound weird,
because your mother never
played the piano.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But I know that
this music is very significant.
>>AUDIENCE: Music is, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because music is
very important to your family.
And I know that
your mother either
wanted to learn
the piano herself--
and I'm going to
tell you something,
her father taught her
that when she passed over.
Because her father is softer
than he was when he was living,
and I know the piano was
one of the first things
that she learned over there,
because her mother's there
as well, gardening the
flowers, that was big for her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she
wants me to tell you
that she's learned piano here.
We're playing the keys, and
I'm teaching your daughter.
So we're passing this on.
So I've got to tell you that.
That's really, really important.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
you're welcome.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now we're going
to switch it up a little bit,
and we're going to have the
other people be the mediums,
and you're going
to be the receiver.
I'm sorry, you're going
to be the partic-- you're
going to give them the name.
So the people that are the
mediums, just close your eyes
and open up your mind
to whatever happens.
And the person in
front of you, you're
going to give them the
name and the relationship
of someone you want to contact.
OK, begin.
And just see what you get.
Let them drop it in
telepathically into your mind.
OK, begin to give
messages, please.
And whatever you get,
don't think of it.
Just give it out.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, folks.
OK, how many people did well?
Raise your hands.
Yes, over here?
Over here?
You guys are very connected.
Yeah?
What'd you get?
What did she tell you?
Because then I'm going
to go on top of that.
>>AUDIENCE: What
did she tell me?
She saw the beard.
And but she said it was dark,
but in his younger years,
it was darker.
But I'm thinking of
him in his later years.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Nah,
he was younger.
>>AUDIENCE: And she picked up
on a horse, but-- and trails.
But we have goats.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
what was the name?
>>AUDIENCE: My husband?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Saul.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Saul?
OK.
And what else?
Anything else?
>>AUDIENCE: The happiness.
She picked up on the
energy of happiness,
which he had a great
sense of humor.
>>VAN PRAAGH: As I
connect with your husband,
if I could-- because as
you're thinking about them,
they're right here.
It's just us opening
up our minds,
and then telepathically just
letting him send me a thought.
Now, I know that you
must be wearing a ring
or you must be wearing something
of his with you right now.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
are, aren't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
I am.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What
are you wearing?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm wearing
his-- the wedding--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that
a ring you're wearing?
>>AUDIENCE: His wedding ring
and a heart that he gave me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I couldn't see
it, because I have no eyesight.
OK, so I know he said you're
wearing a ring of his.
>>AUDIENCE: I also--
the engagement ring.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, perfect.
I also know, as I connect with
Saul-- and what is your name,
sweet lady?
>>AUDIENCE: Deborah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Deborah.
I love Deborah.
I think she's great.
I think you're wonderful.
I think that you get in
your own way sometimes.
And I think sometimes if you
can't get something through,
you're thinking about
it a little too much.
Yes?
So I want you-- you know,
you're very psychic,
you're very intuitive.
Now, you have problems with
your stomach area here.
You're a little
nervous in the stomach.
So sometimes you get
a little agitated,
you'll feel it in your tummy.
Do you know what that means?
So sometimes you might
not be able to eat
right, or no appetite
or something.
I feel a little bit like this,
>>VAN PRAAGH: Butterflies.
Like, nervousness, OK?
I think you did a great job.
What is-- your name again is?
>>AUDIENCE: Dina.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Dina.
I think you did Dina
a great service.
I think Dina, your
husband tells me
you have something on
your purse of his as well.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: A picture.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In your purse.
It's behind--
>>AUDIENCE: And--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah!
Ah!
>>AUDIENCE: No, don't say?
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
behind, like in a pocket.
It's in a pocket.
>>AUDIENCE: It is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he shows me the pocket
that the photo is in there.
>>AUDIENCE: And it's
not just a photo.
It's--
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, don't tell me.
Don't feed the medium.
I've eaten enough.
I just want Saul
to bring through.
Now, Saul in some ways I feel
is an academic time of person.
So I feel academia or academic.
I feel that means a lot
to him, to learn things,
to study things, to read things.
Because I have a
feeling in the lifetime,
he might have been a
reader, a book reader.
>>AUDIENCE: He was.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He was, yes.
And I know that you still have
a lot of his books, he says.
So you still have
a lot of his books.
And I know he's telling me that
when you go-- what about 8:30.
Leave 8:30 alone.
8:30.
He said 8:30, so I'm going
to put that to the side.
Don't know what
he's talking about.
Send it back.
He's got to calm down.
He's very excited.
He's cerebral.
He's a mental person.
He thinks.
He said, whenever she wants
to be with me, when Dina wants
to be with me, she'll go to
my place where my books are.
She'll go in the den.
She'll go in some type
of an office or a study
where my books are.
Does that make sense
to you, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hmm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
You understand that?
And I know that
you speak to him.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that you
speak to him in that room,
especially he's
there in that room.
So he follows you
anywhere, wherever you go.
But I want you to know,
if you go into that room
where his books are-- he
said he has books, his books,
and he wants to go
there, he's with you.
I want to talk about
having flowers.
And I want to talk about
the flowers in a painting.
There are flowers in
some kind of a painting
or a floral thing.
So I don't know where that is.
>>AUDIENCE: Well,
he did paintings.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He painted?
Perfect.
So I want you to
find that, because I
know you must have two
children, you have two kids.
Or one kid?
No kids?
>>AUDIENCE: I don't.
He did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Why is
he saying two kids
are very important to him.
So he might have had 10, but
two are very important to him.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, one's
sitting right here.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, there you go.
>>AUDIENCE: His daughter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So I don't what it is
with the flower picture,
the painting with
flowers in it or on it.
So I don't know if you
have that painting of--
>>AUDIENCE: There is a really
important painting to both
of us that would look like
flowers from a distance
because of the--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would he
know of that painting?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would he
have created that painting?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
Love that.
Now, why is there somebody
who passed over with a gun?
Who took their life with a gun?
Was there a suicide with a gun?
>>AUDIENCE: My cousin.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your cousin.
And suicide with a gun, correct?
I don't know why,
but she's talking
about her father, her father.
So he must be over
there as well.
>>AUDIENCE: He is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that she
didn't have a good
sense of herself,
and I know that she watches
you and she lives through you.
>>AUDIENCE: We
were like sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
I'm gonna cry.
See, it's so real when
you feel it in the heart,
you feel it in that heart space.
And can I say, thank
you for helping her.
Thank you for helping
her in the darkest hours,
and I want to say that your dad
was able to bring her through.
He wanted to bring her through.
I know that I'm as strong as
an ox, this guy, this Saul guy.
I want to thank you for
climbing in the bed with him.
So you must have climbed
in the hospital bed
at one point, some
kind of a bed.
>>AUDIENCE: Not this
time, but once before.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Once before.
Because he gives me a memory
of climbing into a bed
and then saying,
what are you doing,
the people that
are working there?
You can't stay in that bed.
You need to get out of that bed.
And I've got to tell you that.
I also get a sense of coughing.
At one point, coughing a lot.
And he was ready to go.
He was ready to go when he went.
But he wants to thank you for
giving a part of his life.
Really, really, your kind soul.
And this girl really
wants to thank you.
And she wants me to-- are
her parents still alive,
or one of her parents?
>>AUDIENCE: One of
her-- her mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her mother, yeah?
Because would you let
her know she's OK now?
Her mind is better.
She was a manic depressive.
>>AUDIENCE: She was, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She said,
I was manic depressive.
And not anymore.
So that's all stabilized out.
But she's looking
and seeing the things
she left, the remnants she
left behind with her illness.
And it was an illness.
And she didn't mean
to hurt anybody.
She wouldn't hurt a fly.
But she wants to thank you
for looking at her photograph,
and you look at it all the time,
with all the other photographs
that you have.
But it's almost right
there in the center.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she said, thank you
for doing that for me,
for honoring me that way.
So god bless you.
I'll leave you both with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: How'd we do
over here in this group?
This group, I have not
forgotten about you guys.
You're very, very
important to me.
How did you do?
Anybody get someone?
I know you did.
You guys have your own
little world going over here.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: So her father,
John, he had a stomach--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A stomach problem?
>>AUDIENCE: A stomach
problem, and he basically
wanted to talk to her
about that and to let
her know that he's
OK now but that he
did suffer when he died.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
was good validation.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
but he's OK now.
So she really needed some--
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's great.
Great validation.
Do you ever write, by the way?
Because he talks about writing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
I'm a writer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're a writer?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, yeah, I've
been-- yes, I'm a writer.
I need to own that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Yes, you do.
And not only do you need to
own it, you need to finish it.
>>AUDIENCE: You're right.
I need to finish it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you know
you need to finish it.
I know that he comes over
with a grandmother as well.
So I know his mother
must be over there.
And she wants to-- she's
smiling, peaches and cream.
She's smiling.
Everything's fine.
Yeah, really, really well.
And whose mother
passed over here?
That's it, your mom.
I get her.
There's a mother coming back
and forth, back and forth,
back and forth.
Did you speak to her?
Did you try to speak to her?
Was that the person
you tried to contact?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
So I get the mother
really, really strong.
And her first name is what?
>>AUDIENCE: Irene.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Irene.
And what is your name, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: Megan.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Megan, were you
able to bring through something
from Irene, his mom?
>>AUDIENCE: I just got that
she took a lot of her identity
through him and his personality.
She's real proud of him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
Great, great.
Let me just build
on that, if I might.
And your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Doug.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Doug.
Doug, I think you're
a lovely person.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think
you're a lovely person.
I think you give up
on yourself too much.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You don't
see things through.
You're not able to get
things accomplished
or see them through because
I don't believe in myself.
And is your dad still living?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, he is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, so
I know as your mother,
I don't know if she feels
very ill to me at one point.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I feel
it's a long, prolonged type
of illness.
And I feel ill.
I don't feel like myself.
And I really, really didn't
mean to give that to the family,
but she had no choice, she said.
She's a lady who tries--
she gives to everybody else.
She forgets about herself.
Do you understand that?
Who's Michael or Mike?
Do you know that name?
>>AUDIENCE: I have a cousin.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mm-hmm.
And how's his father doing?
>>AUDIENCE: He's still living.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are they getting
along with each other or not?
>>AUDIENCE: I'm not sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Would you find out?
Because I want them
to come together.
She said there's a
problem, there's a rift.
And she wants them
to come together.
Now, I know there's a
cat that's passed over.
I know there's a
dog that's passed--
two dogs have passed over.
She has all the
animals over there.
She loved the animals.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
she loved animals.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The
animals all around her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Lots of dogs.
>>VAN PRAAGH: This morning,
we did an animal show.
Well, let me tell you.
She comes with
all these animals.
So she has all of her animals.
I'm going to tell you one thing.
Your mother's a very sweet lady.
She has her weight back.
She's back.
Her hair is beautiful.
She has nice hair now.
And I'm telling you, she's able
to see her friends and sisters.
>>AUDIENCE: That's good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She really
wanted to tell you that.
And I like to cook things.
So she's cooking me things here.
She's cooking you cookies.
She's cooking you things.
You understand this?
>>AUDIENCE: Fudge.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's cooking.
>>AUDIENCE: She loved fudge.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fudge, oh.
So she must have
cooked that for you.
And I want you to have
fudge in her honor.
And I know that she's going to.
So I know this weekend, if
you could, make some fudge.
I gotta tell you, there's
a move around you.
I don't know if there's a
vision to have a bigger house,
or go to a different place, but
it's coming your way, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: That sounds good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she's
just a thought away.
Just a thought away.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So keep that in your heart.
God bless.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think you did
really, really well, everybody.
I think you did
really, really well.
And remember that
telepathy is really, again,
receiving thoughts.
And the more open we
are to receive them,
then the more we can hear.
It's just opening up
your mind to hear.
That's really what it's about.
So I want to thank
you all very much.
And please use these moments
for the rest of your life
to receive and to heal
yourself and others.
And I want to thank
everybody here
for being at "Spirit Talk."
And I could not put this
show on without my crew.
So I have an incredible crew.
So thank you all very
much for the season.
I appreciate all of you.
God bless you all.
Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
And I want to thank you, and
of course the spirit world.
So all to you, my love and light
to you in every step you take.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
[APPLAUSE]